#### 1. Enrichment of ASC Variants
All single nucleotide variants (SNVs) within functional regions (open chromatin or H3K27ac) in each cell type are retrieved from 1000 Genomes Project. We calculate MetaChrom score, Funsig score and CADD score for all SNVs. Funsig score is obtained from the DeepSEA Server and CADD score is obtained from annovar. We define the top 10,000 variants ranked by MetaChrom score, Funsig score and CADD score in descending order as MetaChrom, Funsig and CADD predicted functional variants, respectively. ASC variants in NPC and Glut cells are obtained from a neuron ATAC-seq paper. In the neuron ATAC-seq study, iPSCs of 20 individuals are first differentiated into neural progenitor cells (NPC) and gutamatergic (iN-Glut) neurons. Then, ATAC-seq is performed, and 5,611 and 3,547 ASoC SNPs are identified in NPC and iN-Glut cells by allelic imbalance test, respectively. We count the number of ASC variants in predicted functional variants and control variants, and the Enrichment of ASC variants is calculated by fisher exact test. 

#### 2. Sign Consistentcy
For ASC variants, we define its observed allelic imbalance as log(ref reads/alt reads) and predicted effect on chromatin accessibility as log(ref pred/alt pred). Correlation between observed allelic imbalance and predicted effect on chromatin accessibility is calcualted by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.

#### 3. Evolutionary Constraint
GERP scores of MetaChrom predicted functional variants and control variants are generated by Annovar. P value is calculated by the Wilcoxon Rank-Sum Test.


#### 4. Purifying Selection
Minor allele frequency of potential functional variants and control variants is obtained from gnomAD. The MetaChrom score ranges from 0 to 1. We splitted variants into 5 bins according to the MetaChrom score, We created five bins, namely 0-0.05, 0.05-0.1, 0.1-0.15, 0.15-0.2 and 0.2-1.0, and split variants into bins according their MetaChrom score. In each bin, We calculated the mean of minor allele frequency and standard error of the mean.
